As a player, you are encouraged to **lie, cheat, and steal** as necessary to ensure the success of your mission. This doesn’t mean you should antagonize the referee or the other players, but it does mean that the game is unfair, and completing your objectives will require shifting the advantage from the enemy to yourself. Lying, cheating, and stealing are not game mechanics per se, but should be your foremost tools when death is breathing down your neck.

- **Lying** could mean assuming a false identity to bypass a guard post when your HP is low. It could mean tossing a rock against a nearby oil drum to misdirect a robotic search dog, or bluffing to a vampire that you have a vial of holy water up your sleeve. Letting yourself be taken in by a UFO cult under false pretenses so you can study their alien connections from within is a lie. Stealth itself is a lie—for your own gain, you convince the enemy that you “don’t exist."

- **Cheating** could mean sabotaging a vehicle at rest because you know you won’t be able to outrun it later, or waltzing through a group of would-be assassins because you can freeze time at will. It could mean asking every other player to spend a WAR DIE on your attack, boosting the damage you just dealt into the stratosphere. More often than not, you are beneath the world’s boot, but you can always think outside the box and try to game the system.

- **Stealing can also be euphemized** as “on-site procurement." You are not limited to standard issue and trait items. If a worker has a tool, a guard has a key, or a soldier has a gun, it can become yours with a little creative thinking. If you carry an item to the end of a mission, it persists into the next. Rend the dust-caked thermal goggles from an undead Navy SEAL and keep them for yourself. Pilfer an experimental Soviet microwave gun and make it your signature weapon. Grab some rags and vodka from a haunted liquor store today—you might find yourself beating back mutant kudzu vines tomorrow.