What is a roleplaying game? We're not sure, but while our top scientists are putting their heads together to find an answer, we'll share some of the design philosophy that went into making this game. How does a roleplaying game differ from make-believe? Because FIST is a mercenary roleplaying game, we'll open with another example of imaginary warfare - a pretend playground gunfight - and lay out three pillars of thought for the referee: **trust, chance, and rules**.

- **Trust** is typically expected and assumed in a pretend playground gunfight. All parties involved implicitly trust each other to constrain their imaginative play along commonly understood boundaries: guns go "bang" when fired, people cannot be shot through solid objects, people die when shot, etc. Players who undermine these rules ("My magic armor can deflect bullets") are removing the structure which turns freeform play into a sensory- and decision-based game - you run from "bang"s you hear, you duck behind solid objects you see, you lie down when dead so others are not confused, you die loudly and wildly to help suspend collective disbelief. In a roleplaying game context, this implicit trust still exists: the referee trusts the players to approach the imagined world boldly, cleverly, and in good faith, and the players trust the ref in turn to be fair, knowledgeable, clear, and consistent. At a table, fiction takes the place of sensory input; all decisions are now made in an imaginary context narrated largely by the referee. This places an incredible burden on the referee to be as impartial and knowledgeable about simulated minutiae as possible (and tends toward predictability), so we incorporate chance.

- **Chance** can be used to abstract all kinds of mental heavy lifting for the table. Complex matters like combat, injury, body language, piloting, etc. could be a chore to resolve entirely through agreed- upon, common-sense descriptions, so we roll dice to find out what happens - whatever the specifics of dogfighting are, the dice will tell us if you crash the fighter jet, you don't, or something in between. Chance further suspends disbelief and increases fairness - things don't always play out according to our agreed-upon, common-sense expectations. Chance can also be used in place of referee prep; the **intelligence matrix** (p. 70) is provided partially for this purpose.

- **Rules** are the final pillar. Trust and chance are the proteins of roleplaying and make for a fun, if vague and strenuous, game. Rules are the seasoning. They can handle further mental heavy lifting by hand- waving complex questions for the sake of pacing and everybody's time. When should we invoke chance? How do we abstract some people having better odds than others, given the same preparation? When can I summon my magic armor that deflects bullets? The implicit rules (advice, setting information, etc.) are just as important as the explicit ones. For instance, FIST itself is an action-science-fantasy- horror pastiche so that genre conventions can replace mental heavy lifting - maybe we don't know which common industrial chemicals are flammable, but we do know that red barrels always explode.