Our pillars support a theater of the mind. What makes for good theater?

1. **Run the show.**
 - **Always keep things moving.** Pacing is key to running the show. When a player rolls a failure, it doesn’t just mean they mess up—it’s the referee’s opportunity to inflict some negative consequence that still changes the situation, letting the players “fail forward." When a player rolls a success, a new challenge should appear that follows logically from how their actions changed the situation. Most of the time, the players will roll partial successes, so you should always be thinking of difficult compromises, holes in good plans, and bittersweet victories.
 - **Maintain the suspension of disbelief.** The fictional world must behave how the players expect it to. Don’t pull things out of nowhere, and try not to change how the setting works after it’s been established (unless you have a good explanation). Do ensure that all the little things that “sell” a game world occur: NPCs should appear to have inner lives, small fires should propagate, and buildings should be destructible, given the right explosives.
 - **Be a fan of the characters.** Excite them with grand conspiracies and strange phenomena beyond the fringes of scientific thought. Let their clever solutions work as long as they are within the realm of possibility; consider having them roll the dice before you say “no." Generally speaking, give them space to be legendary mercenaries.

2. **Respect the audience.**
 - **Don’t hide important information.** This is a game of communication and decisions, and the players can’t make good decisions if you don’t communicate. Tell players information that their characters could reasonably know. Try to present actionable challenges and opportunities, not arbitrary mechanisms of punishment and reward. Roll your dice out in the open so the players can see your results, and require the same from them. When you make rulings, be consistent and clear, and let the players know beforehand.
 - **Make rulings that make sense.** As the referee, you have the power to reinterpret the rules as you see fit in service of fun. Let your players use the tools at their disposal to do cool things (even if they’re a stretch, like dual-wielding rocket launchers) but keep things fair for the other players, too. If the function or scope of a trait is unclear, you have the final say, but never be afraid to open a dialogue at the table. There is no downside to a fun “what-if” conversation.
 - **Don’t pull punches.** Sometimes, a player might do something that completely screws them over, or even compromises the mission in pursuit of their own goals. Other times, forces outside of the protagonists’ control (from massive conspiracies to pure bad luck) will ruin even the best-laid plans. Allow conflict and failure to freely occur, just as they do in real life.

3. Play to find out what happens.
 - **Respond to the dice.** Randomness can bring an energy and mystery to the game which is hard to improvise—don’t throw this away by fudging rolls or guiding the game strictly toward a pre-planned ending.
 - **Look at all of your ideas through crosshairs.** Be ready to improvise based on how the players and dice steer the story. You might find that you’ve imagined a ton of exciting moments that cannot come to fruition once the players choose to follow a different path. This is normal. The referee, much like a secret agent handler, can only provide key information and speculate about what may happen before the mission begins. Once the trigger is pulled, uncontrolled variables are the name of the game.
 - **Above all else, follow the rule of fun over the rules as written.** FIST is designed to have flexible gameplay, and this flexibility depends entirely on its core design principle: people are smarter and more fun than a book. Of course, you bought, found, or stole this book and are expecting it to give you the tools to play a game, so we’ve included as much of that as possible (our favorite rulings, our best practices, our sources of inspiration), but when it comes down to it, your table knows what they find fun better than we do. If something in this book doesn’t work for you, toss it out and make something new.