You belong to a legendary rogue mercenary unit called FIST. You are a soldier of fortune who doesn't fit into mainstream society. You are one of the little guys, caught up in the death and destruction of pointless proxy wars and oppressive establishments. You may also be someone who can turn into a ghost or control bees with your mind. The paranormal secrets of the Cold War are your bread and butter, and you fight for your life to make ends meet alongside others like you.
## An explanation of traits
**Traits** are the building blocks of FIST characters. Each trait grants you three things: a special skill or benefit, an item for your inventory (like a weapon or tool), and a modification to your stats (like your attributes or HP). Picking a handful of traits generates a complete character. When a character **advances**, they may choose to take another trait - it's like adding another block which makes them more complex or powerful.

1. *Procure a character sheet* (p. 152). Found on the character sheet are your character's attributes: FORCEFUL, TACTICAL, CREATIVE, and REFLEXIVE. An attribute represents a character's skill level when approaching a related challenge. A higher number means a higher chance of success when using that attribute.
2. **Choose two traits from the traits index, or roll 2D666** (p. 39-66). Record your chosen traits on your character sheet. Keep the traits index on hand for reference.
3. **Fill out your ATTRIBUTES, INVENTORY, ARMOR, HP, and WAR DICE.**
 - All of your attributes start at 0. Calculate what they are after picking two traits, and write them all down.
 - Fill your inventory with any items your traits gave you. You can always carry as many items as you want, but you can only equip one weapon at a time. Unarmed/non-weapon attacks deal worst-of-2D6 DAMAGE.
 - All characters start with 0 ARMOR. You can only wear one body-sized piece of armor at a time, but there's no limit on accessories (p. 83).
 - All characters start with 6 MAX HP. HP stands for "hit points," and represents how much damage you can take.
 - All characters start with 0 WAR DICE. WAR DICE represent grit, spirit, and luck. You can spend a WAR DIE to add +1D6 whenever anyone rolls the dice (including damage rolls, referee rolls, encounters, etc.). WAR DICE are **consumable** - when you use a WAR DIE, it's gone.
 - Take 1.) a **standard issue item**, 2.) +1D6 MAX HP, or 3.) +1D6 WAR DICE.
4. **Choose a role from the roles index, or roll D66** (p. 67). Your role is something your character always wants to do, and doing it lets them advance. You can't choose a role someone else already has.
5. **Choose a codename.** Pick a codename for yourself that fits who you are and what you do. Also, pick a real name, but don't tell it to anyone - not even the referee -  until the perfect dramatic opportunity occurs.