When you **do something risky** - that is, any action where the outcome is uncertain - you roll the dice to find out what happens. You don't need to roll the dice when it's something the character could easily accomplish, and you shouldn't roll the dice when it's something completely impossible. When you take risks, try to be prepared for the consequences.

1. **Choose an attribute.**
The referee will ask you which of your attributes you're using, or they might decide for you if the answer is unclear. Before you roll, you can ask the referee for some possible outcomes of your action to get an idea of what you're up against.
- Roll +FORCEFUL for displays of strength, like kicking in doors, using clunky, powerful weapons, or intimidating others.
- Roll +TACTICAL for applications of logic, like maintaining a disguise, hacking into a database, or operating machinery.
- Roll +CREATIVE for expressions of will, like persuasive speeches, off- the-cuff bluffing, or psychic manipulation.
- Roll +REFLEXIVE for feats of agility, like dodging bullets, using light, precise weapons, or parrying enemy attacks.

2. **Roll the dice.**
Roll 2D6, add them together, and add the attribute you're using. You can also add a WAR DIE to any roll to change the result. The total determines your degree of success. No matter what happens, the referee always narrates how the fictional situation changes. It never stays the same, even when things are going smoothly.
- 6 OR BELOW: Your roll is a **failure.** You don't do what you wanted to do, and things go wrong somehow.
- 7 TO 9: Your roll is a **partial success.** You do what you wanted to, but with a cost, compromise, or complication.
- 10 OR ABOVE: Your roll is a **success.** You do exactly what you wanted to do, without any additional headaches.
- DOUBLE SIXES: Your roll is an **ultra success!** You do exactly what you wanted to do, with some spectacular added bonus.

Referee-controlled characters don't have to roll the dice to do something risky. The referee simply narrates things that are about to happen, and the players roll the dice to react to them.